README.md, before:

# Sample and demo programs

#### **: If there multiple solutions for a given solution, go with this.

## C language
- [Matrix traversal](matrix_traversal_performance.c): Traversing matrix row wise in C is more efficient than column wise.
- [Function pointers in C](function_pointer_arrays.c): Function pointer array in C language.
- [Matrix as 1-D array](matrix_as_1d_array.c): Demonstration of matrix as 1-D array.
- [Run shell command in C](get_pid_of_other_process.c): Run shell command in C program and gather the output, Eg: Find PID of a running process.
- [Delete a line](delete_a_line.c): Delete a line from file using line number.
- [Block scope in C](var_block_scope.c): Block scope of variable in C.
- [Connect MySQL](connect_mysql.c): Connect with mysql and execute sample query.
- [Print timestamp in C](print_timestamp.c): Print time stamp with milliseconds precision.
- [NULL pointer in C](null_pointer.c): NULL pointer in C.
- [Memset in C](my_memset.c): Memset demo in C.
- [Print long string in C](print_long_strings.c): Print long string in C.
- [Comma operator in C](comma_operator.c): Usage of comma operator in C.
- [Print without semicolon](print_without_sem.c): Print anything without using semicolon in C.
- [Macro braces in macros](macro_braces.c): Importance of parenthesis in using macros.
- [Hex buffers](save_buffer.c): Prints data in structure as buffer of hex numbers.
- [Own strcmp](str_cmp.c): strcmp implemented.
- [Strlen in C](strlen_test.c): Few tests for strlen function behaviour.
- [Token pasting operator in C](C-language/token_pasting_operator.c): Demo to use token pasting operator (##) in C.
- [Hide password](C-language/hide_passwd.c): Program to hide password while typing.

## Python
- [Unpack list and dictionary](python/unpack_list_dict.py): How to unpack list and dictionaries when passed as function arguments.
- [Send mail using SMTP](python/sendmail.py): Script to send mail using SMTP from linux machine.
- [Pass string values to SQL query](python/string_params_in_sql.py): Pass multiple string parameters to SQL query.
- [Function pointer in python](python/python_function_pointer.py): Simulate function pointer(as in C language) in python.
- [Fibonacci number, memoized](python/memoized_fibonacci.py): Performance comparison to find nth fibonacci(using recursive approach) number with and without memoization.
- [Named-tuples](python/named_tuple.py): Few snippets to work with named tuples in python.
- [Optional mutable arguments](python/mutable_default_arguments.py): Optional mutable arguments retains its value in subsequent calls.
- [Connect MySQL in python](python/connect_mysql.py): Python program to connect and execute query on MySQL.
- [Slots usage in python](python/slots_usage.py): __slots__ usage in python, Used to save memory when large number of objects are created.
- [Map, filter, reduce](python/map_filter_reduce.py): Map, filter and reduce in python.
- [Singleton pattern, using __new__](python/singleton_class_using_new.py): Implement singleton in python by overwriting __new__ method.
- [Singleton pattern, using decorator\*\*](python/singleton_class_using_decorator.py): Implement singleton in python using decorator.
- [Make class iterable](python/make_class_iterable.py): Make an user defined class iterable, define __iter__ and __next__.
- [Define a class](python/class_defining.py): Define a class and instance methods.
- [Data/Static class variables](python/class_data_variable.py): Create, access and update class/static variables.
- [Data hiding](python/class_data_hiding.py): Private(name mangling) data members in python
- [Static and class methods](python/class_static_and_class_methods.py): Static and class methods.
- [Method overriding](python/class_method_overriding.py): Method overriding in python
- [Check object's membership](python/class_check_object_membership.py): Check object membership using isinstance() and issubclass().
- [Access members of parents class](python/class_access_parent_members.py): How to access methods and members of parent class from derived class.
- [Multiple inheritance](python/class_multiple_inheritance.py): Multiple inheritance in python.
- [Lamda demo](python/lambda_demo.py): Lambda operator in python.
- [Enumerate and zip](python/enumerate_and_zip.py): Enumerate and zip in python.
- [Generators](python/generators.py): Usage of generators in python.
- [Property](python/property.py): Defining and using property in python.
- [Decorator](python/decorators.py): Decorator usage.
- [Decorator with arguments](python/decorator_with_arguments.py): Decorator with arguments.
- [Threading module](python/threading_module.py): Example to show threading module usage.
- [Thread module](python/thread_module.py): Example to show thread and lock usage in python.
- [Custom context manager using class](python/context_manager_using_class.py): Impelement custom context manager using class.
- [Custom context manager using contextlib](python/context_manager_using_contextlib.py): Implement custom context manager using contextlib module.

## CPP
- [Sample C++ program](cpp/main.cc): Sample C++ program.

## Others
- [Slice and bool](slice_bool.go): Slice and bool demo in goLang.
- [Merge PDFs first page](merge_all_pdfs_first_page.sh): Script to merge first page of all PDF files found in current directory and sub-directories.
- [Compare database](db_cmp.sh): Compares 2 sqlite3 database files.
- [Check database integrity](db_backup.sh): Checks sqlite3 database integrity and copies from backup if corrupted.
- [Replace strings](replace.sh): Replaces set of strings to corresponding new ones.

Commit message:

input/output and string operations

README.md, after:

# Sample and demo programs

#### **: If there multiple solutions for a given solution, go with this.

## C language
- [Matrix traversal](matrix_traversal_performance.c): Traversing matrix row wise in C is more efficient than column wise.
- [Function pointers in C](function_pointer_arrays.c): Function pointer array in C language.
- [Matrix as 1-D array](matrix_as_1d_array.c): Demonstration of matrix as 1-D array.
- [Run shell command in C](get_pid_of_other_process.c): Run shell command in C program and gather the output, Eg: Find PID of a running process.
- [Delete a line](delete_a_line.c): Delete a line from file using line number.
- [Block scope in C](var_block_scope.c): Block scope of variable in C.
- [Connect MySQL](connect_mysql.c): Connect with mysql and execute sample query.
- [Print timestamp in C](print_timestamp.c): Print time stamp with milliseconds precision.
- [NULL pointer in C](null_pointer.c): NULL pointer in C.
- [Memset in C](my_memset.c): Memset demo in C.
- [Print long string in C](print_long_strings.c): Print long string in C.
- [Comma operator in C](comma_operator.c): Usage of comma operator in C.
- [Print without semicolon](print_without_sem.c): Print anything without using semicolon in C.
- [Macro braces in macros](macro_braces.c): Importance of parenthesis in using macros.
- [Hex buffers](save_buffer.c): Prints data in structure as buffer of hex numbers.
- [Own strcmp](str_cmp.c): strcmp implemented.
- [Strlen in C](strlen_test.c): Few tests for strlen function behaviour.
- [Token pasting operator in C](C-language/token_pasting_operator.c): Demo to use token pasting operator (##) in C.
- [Hide password](C-language/hide_passwd.c): Program to hide password while typing.

## Python
- [Unpack list and dictionary](python/unpack_list_dict.py): How to unpack list and dictionaries when passed as function arguments.
- [Send mail using SMTP](python/sendmail.py): Script to send mail using SMTP from linux machine.
- [Pass string values to SQL query](python/string_params_in_sql.py): Pass multiple string parameters to SQL query.
- [Function pointer in python](python/python_function_pointer.py): Simulate function pointer(as in C language) in python.
- [Fibonacci number, memoized](python/memoized_fibonacci.py): Performance comparison to find nth fibonacci(using recursive approach) number with and without memoization.
- [Named-tuples](python/named_tuple.py): Few snippets to work with named tuples in python.
- [Optional mutable arguments](python/mutable_default_arguments.py): Optional mutable arguments retains its value in subsequent calls.
- [Connect MySQL in python](python/connect_mysql.py): Python program to connect and execute query on MySQL.
- [Slots usage in python](python/slots_usage.py): __slots__ usage in python, Used to save memory when large number of objects are created.
- [Map, filter, reduce](python/map_filter_reduce.py): Map, filter and reduce in python.
- [Singleton pattern, using __new__](python/singleton_class_using_new.py): Implement singleton in python by overwriting __new__ method.
- [Singleton pattern, using decorator\*\*](python/singleton_class_using_decorator.py): Implement singleton in python using decorator.
- [Make class iterable](python/make_class_iterable.py): Make an user defined class iterable, define __iter__ and __next__.
- [Define a class](python/class_defining.py): Define a class and instance methods.
- [Data/Static class variables](python/class_data_variable.py): Create, access and update class/static variables.
- [Data hiding](python/class_data_hiding.py): Private(name mangling) data members in python
- [Static and class methods](python/class_static_and_class_methods.py): Static and class methods.
- [Method overriding](python/class_method_overriding.py): Method overriding in python
- [Check object's membership](python/class_check_object_membership.py): Check object membership using isinstance() and issubclass().
- [Access members of parents class](python/class_access_parent_members.py): How to access methods and members of parent class from derived class.
- [Multiple inheritance](python/class_multiple_inheritance.py): Multiple inheritance in python.
- [Lamda demo](python/lambda_demo.py): Lambda operator in python.
- [Enumerate and zip](python/enumerate_and_zip.py): Enumerate and zip in python.
- [Generators](python/generators.py): Usage of generators in python.
- [Property](python/property.py): Defining and using property in python.
- [Decorator](python/decorators.py): Decorator usage.
- [Decorator with arguments](python/decorator_with_arguments.py): Decorator with arguments.
- [Threading module](python/threading_module.py): Example to show threading module usage.
- [Thread module](python/thread_module.py): Example to show thread and lock usage in python.
- [Custom context manager using class](python/context_manager_using_class.py): Impelement custom context manager using class.
- [Custom context manager using contextlib](python/context_manager_using_contextlib.py): Implement custom context manager using contextlib module.

## CPP
- [Sample C++ program](cpp/main.cc): Sample C++ program for input/output and string operations.

## Others
- [Slice and bool](slice_bool.go): Slice and bool demo in goLang.
- [Merge PDFs first page](merge_all_pdfs_first_page.sh): Script to merge first page of all PDF files found in current directory and sub-directories.
- [Compare database](db_cmp.sh): Compares 2 sqlite3 database files.
- [Check database integrity](db_backup.sh): Checks sqlite3 database integrity and copies from backup if corrupted.
- [Replace strings](replace.sh): Replaces set of strings to corresponding new ones.
